CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

Ember front end for HospitalRun
==================================================

Contributions are welcome via pull requests and issues.  This project uses the style guides from Dockyard for [Ember](https://github.com/dockyard/styleguides/blob/master/engineering/ember.md) and [JavaScript](https://github.com/dockyard/styleguides/blob/master/engineering/javascript.md).  These style guides are enforced via [Ember Suave](https://github.com/dockyard/ember-suave).  Before submitting a pull request, please make sure all tests pass by running ```ember test```.

Slack / Communication
==================================================
Project communication occurs primarily and intentionally via our project [Slack](https://hospitalrun.slack.com/). Those interested in / considering contribution are encouraged to [join](https://hospitalrun-slackin.herokuapp.com/).

Help Wanted
==================================================
If you're looking for a way to contribute, the [Help Wanted](https://github.com/HospitalRun/hospitalrun-frontend/labels/Help%20Wanted) tag is the right place to start. Those issues are intended to be bugs / features / enhancements / technologies that have been vetted and we know we want to include in the project.

Needs Requirements
==================================================
[Needs Requirements](https://github.com/HospitalRun/hospitalrun-frontend/labels/Needs%20Requirements) is a tag we use to designate that someone analyst interests / skills can/could/is needed to work out and document the requirements for the given issue. Simple requirements (or frankly anything that can be) should be recorded in the issue. More complicated formatting our documentation could be stored in the project wiki. To be honest, we're working this out still. So if you're interested in helping us sort out requirements, email joel@cure.org

Selecting a Issue / Feature to which you wish to contribute
==================================================
This guide assumes a level of knowledge on how to use GitHub issues and pull requests. If you choose to contribute code, the standard procedure would to do the following:
1. Fork the master repo
2. Add a comment in the given issue, referencing @tangollama to let our product management function know your intentions.
3. Use the GitHub issue to converse regarding requirements.
4. Submit a pull request at the point that you feel the feature is "ready to show."

Commit message:

Add details on submitting a pull request

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to the Ember front end for HospitalRun

Contributions are welcome via pull requests and issues.  This project uses the style guides from Dockyard for [Ember](https://github.com/dockyard/styleguides/blob/master/engineering/ember.md) and [JavaScript](https://github.com/dockyard/styleguides/blob/master/engineering/javascript.md).  These style guides are enforced via [Ember Suave](https://github.com/dockyard/ember-suave).  Before submitting a pull request, please make sure all tests pass by running ```ember test```.

## Slack / Communication

Project communication occurs primarily and intentionally via our project [Slack](https://hospitalrun.slack.com/). Those interested in / considering contribution are encouraged to [join](https://hospitalrun-slackin.herokuapp.com/).

## Help Wanted

If you're looking for a way to contribute, the [Help Wanted](https://github.com/HospitalRun/hospitalrun-frontend/labels/Help%20Wanted) tag is the right place to start. Those issues are intended to be bugs / features / enhancements / technologies that have been vetted and we know we want to include in the project.

## Needs Requirements

[Needs Requirements](https://github.com/HospitalRun/hospitalrun-frontend/labels/Needs%20Requirements) is a tag we use to designate that someone analyst interests / skills can/could/is needed to work out and document the requirements for the given issue. Simple requirements (or frankly anything that can be) should be recorded in the issue. More complicated formatting our documentation could be stored in the project wiki. To be honest, we're working this out still. So if you're interested in helping us sort out requirements, email joel@cure.org

## Selecting a Issue / Feature to which you wish to contribute

This guide assumes a level of knowledge on how to use GitHub issues and pull requests. If you choose to contribute code, the standard procedure would to do the following:
1. Fork the master repo
2. Add a comment in the given issue, referencing @tangollama to let our product management function know your intentions.
3. Use the GitHub issue to converse regarding requirements.
4. Submit a pull request at the point that you feel the feature is "ready to show."

## Guidelines for submitting a Pull Request

- When opening a PR for a specific issue already open, please use the `address #[issue number]` or `closes #[issue number]` syntax in the pull request description.
- Please keep your changes succint in scope. Large pull requests with multiple changes to the codebase (i.e. multiple features) may be asked to be broken into multiple smaller pull requests.
- Please give as much detail as is relevant about your approach to the solution in the pull request description.
- When your code changes include any change to the visual UI, please include a screenshot of how your changes appear in the browser.
-
